My revised recommendation: Option A+

I would use a slightly stronger version of the proposed Option A.

Option A+: Controlled product carve-out with in-place tenant conversion
Create a clean product repository from the current production codebase.
Transfer the product IP into the new software entity.
Continue development from that repository.
Introduce tenant architecture inside the existing application.
Make Hire’in the first tenant.
Avoid maintaining two functional applications.
Preserve the current domain logic.
Remove Hire’in-specific assumptions incrementally.
Introduce commercial capabilities around the existing core.
Onboard external design partners only after tenant-isolation testing.

This is technically closer to a fork, but operationally it must remain one product line, not two competing codebases.

The distinction is important:

A repository fork for ownership and cleanup can be reasonable.
A product fork where both systems keep evolving separately is dangerous.
A greenfield rewrite is unnecessary.
Where I agree completely with the critique
The current product is not a prototype

The most important point is correct.

A prototype usually proves:

A user can log in.
An employee record can be created.
A leave request can be submitted.
A dashboard can display data.

You have moved far beyond that.

Your application contains accumulated operational rules, exceptions, approvals, state transitions, scheduled jobs, calculations, historical records, documents, and business controls.

That operational knowledge is the asset.

The visible screens are reproducible. The embedded domain behavior is much harder to reproduce.

Parallel maintenance would be damaging

A greenfield project would force you to decide continuously:

Does this bug get fixed in the Hire’in system?
Does the same bug also get fixed in the SaaS system?
Does a new payroll requirement go into both?
Which implementation is authoritative?
When is the new system safe enough for Hire’in?
How are production records migrated?
How do you compare calculated payroll results across systems?

That is exactly how teams lose momentum while believing they are “modernizing.”

The existing technology is not inherently obsolete

Nothing about React, TypeScript, Node.js, PostgreSQL, or Drizzle creates a need for a rewrite.

The relevant questions are:

Is the code modular enough to introduce tenant context?
Are database calls centralized enough to enforce scoping?
Are global settings separable?
Can cron jobs operate tenant by tenant?
Can files, reports, emails, and audit events be isolated?
Are Hire’in assumptions identifiable and removable?

Those are refactoring questions, not greenfield questions.

One point I would correct in the critique

This statement is too simple:

“Migration is adding a column, not moving cities.”

The conclusion is right, but multi-tenancy is more than adding org_id.

Adding the column is the beginning. The real work is ensuring that no operation can accidentally cross tenant boundaries.

The conversion must cover every layer.

Database
Tenant identifier on every tenant-owned table
Tenant-aware foreign keys
Composite unique constraints
Tenant-scoped indexes
Tenant ownership for documents and generated files
Tenant-specific settings
Tenant-aware audit logs
Tenant-aware soft deletion and retention
Migration of existing Hire’in data into Tenant #1

For example, this will often be insufficient:

UNIQUE (employee_email)

It may need to become:

UNIQUE (organization_id, employee_email)

The same consideration applies to:

Employee IDs
Department names
Policy codes
Salary components
SOP numbers
Shift names
Payroll periods
Document templates
Roles and permissions
Application services

Every repository or service operation must obtain tenant context from the authenticated session, not from an untrusted request body.

Unsafe:

getEmployees(req.query.organizationId);

Safer:

getEmployees(req.auth.organizationId);
Authentication and authorization

The system must distinguish:

A user identity
Organization membership
Role within that organization
Permissions within that role
Super-admin or support access
Users who belong to multiple organizations

A SaaS user may eventually be:

Person
 ├── Member of Company A as HR Admin
 └── Member of Company B as Consultant

That is different from the current assumption that a user has one company-wide role.

Scheduled jobs

Your cron jobs are among the highest-risk areas.

Attendance sweeps, leave accruals, payroll calculations, reminders, digests, compliance locks, probation checks, and SOP enforcement must run:

Per tenant
In the tenant’s time zone
Using the tenant’s policy configuration
With tenant-scoped locks
With tenant-scoped idempotency
With isolated audit records

A global attendance sweep accidentally applying Hire’in’s shift policy to another customer would be a serious commercial failure.

Documents and storage

Tenant boundaries must apply to:

Offer letters
HR letters
Addenda
Payslips
Employee uploads
Policy documents
SOP files
Signatures
Generated reports
Verification links

Storage paths and encryption metadata should contain tenant ownership.

AI and analytics

Your AI layer must never retrieve data across organizations.

Tenant isolation must apply to:

Context retrieval
Vector stores
Prompt construction
Conversation history
Cached summaries
Model logs
Analytics
Executive reports
Training or evaluation datasets

Therefore, Option A is still the right answer—but it must be treated as a proper platform transformation, not merely a schema edit.

Recommended technical architecture

For your likely initial customers, I would use:

Shared application, shared database, shared schema—with strong tenant scoping
Application
    │
    ├── Tenant Context Middleware
    ├── Tenant-Scoped Service Layer
    ├── Permission Engine
    ├── Configuration Engine
    └── Audit Layer
                │
                ▼
PostgreSQL
    └── Shared schema with organization_id

This approach gives you:

Lower infrastructure cost
Easier upgrades
One production version
Faster customer onboarding
Easier reporting and support
Less operational complexity

However, implement defense in depth:

Application-level tenant enforcement
Tenant-scoped repository methods
Database constraints
PostgreSQL Row-Level Security where practical
Automated cross-tenant leakage tests
Security logging for privileged access

You do not need schema-per-tenant or database-per-tenant initially. Those approaches can be introduced later for large enterprise customers where contractual isolation requires them.

Recommended transformation roadmap
Phase 0: Architecture and dependency audit

Estimated duration: 2–3 weeks

Do not modify hundreds of tables immediately.

First create an authoritative inventory:

Every table
Whether it is tenant-owned, global, or shared-reference data
Every API route
Every background job
Every file-storage path
Every email process
Every external integration
Every system setting
Every hardcoded Hire’in reference
Every global uniqueness assumption
Every permission check
Every reporting query
Every AI retrieval path

Classify each table:

Classification	Example
Global platform data	Subscription plans, country codes
Tenant-owned data	Employees, payroll, attendance
Tenant-configurable reference	Leave types, salary components
Shared product reference	Standard statutory formulas, where applicable
Sensitive tenant data	Payslips, HR cases, coaching evidence

Output: Tenant Conversion Blueprint.

Phase 1: Tenant foundation

Estimated duration: 3–5 weeks

Build:

organizations
organization_memberships
Tenant-aware roles and permissions
Tenant context middleware
Organization selector where needed
Tenant-scoped repositories
Tenant configuration framework
Organization status and subscription fields
Platform-admin support model
Tenant-aware audit logs

Make Hire’in:

Organization ID: 1
Organization: Hire’in Solutions
Status: Active
Plan: Internal / Founding Tenant

Do not onboard an external customer yet.

Phase 2: High-risk domain conversion

Estimated duration: 6–10 weeks

Convert the most sensitive modules first:

Authentication and employee records
Attendance and shifts
Leave and accrual
Payroll and salary
Documents and e-signatures
SOP and policy governance
Performance and probation
Notifications and background jobs
Reporting and exports
AI and executive intelligence

For each module, require:

Tenant-scoped reads
Tenant-scoped writes
Cross-tenant access tests
Tenant-specific configuration
Tenant-specific scheduled jobs
Tenant-aware documents
Audit verification

This work can proceed module by module without freezing all product development.

Phase 3: Commercial productization

Estimated duration: 4–8 weeks, partially parallel

Add what an internal portal does not need:

Neutral product branding
Organization onboarding wizard
Initial admin invitation
Employee CSV import
Policy and configuration setup
Subscription and entitlements
Customer support tooling
Usage telemetry
Data export
Data deletion workflows
Customer-facing audit logs
Terms, privacy, and data-processing agreements
Status monitoring
Backup and restore procedures
Feature flags
Customer-level configurations

This is where internal software becomes a sellable SaaS product.

Phase 4: Controlled design-partner pilots

Estimated duration: 8–12 weeks

Start with two or three organizations, not ten.

Recommended pilot profile:

25–100 employees
Staffing or outsourcing company
Founder-led
India or US–India workforce
Significant dependence on spreadsheets and WhatsApp
Willing to provide weekly feedback
Willing to pay a reduced pilot fee
Not requiring immediate replacement of a large enterprise payroll system

Pilot modules:

Employee management
Attendance and leave
Onboarding and probation
Goals and check-ins
SOP and training governance
Performance plans
Executive compliance dashboard

Delay highly sensitive production payroll migration until the tenant platform has demonstrated reliability.

Realistic timeline

The critique’s estimated 3–4 months to the first tenant is possible, but only under a narrow definition:

A controlled design partner using selected modules—not a fully mature, generally available SaaS platform with complete module parity.

A more responsible expectation is:

Outcome	Reasonable range
Tenant architecture foundation	1–2 months
Hire’in operating safely as Tenant #1	2–3 months
First controlled design partner	3–5 months
Multiple paying pilot customers	5–8 months
Commercially mature SaaS release	8–12 months

This is still dramatically better than a 12–24-month greenfield rewrite.

What happens to feature development?

Do not fully freeze feature development.

Instead establish a rule:

Only build new features through tenant-safe architecture

For every new feature:

Tenant ownership must be explicit.
Settings must not be Hire’in-specific.
Permissions must be configurable.
Background jobs must be tenant-aware.
Documents must be tenant-scoped.
Notifications must be organization-branded.
Data exports must be tenant-isolated.
Audit records must contain tenant context.

This allows the internal product and commercial platform to advance together.

However, pause low-value feature expansion until the tenant foundation is complete. The priority should shift from more modules to:

Tenant safety
Configurability
Reliability
Onboarding
Customer usability
Product analytics
Security
VC and investment lens

From a venture perspective, this revised approach is substantially better.

Greenfield rewrite destroys evidence

An investor values the fact that:

The product is live.
A real company depends on it.
Complex workflows are operating.
Real employee and management behavior has shaped it.
The founder is also the first sophisticated user.
Domain logic has been accumulated over time.

A rewrite would replace a functioning asset with a development promise.

In-place conversion preserves the strongest story

The fundraising narrative becomes:

“We built the platform to solve the operating problems inside our staffing company. It now manages real workflows across HR, attendance, payroll, performance, governance, training, and compliance. We are converting that proven system into a secure multi-tenant platform, with Hire’in remaining the founding tenant.”

That is a credible founder-market-fit story.

It is much stronger than:

“We once had an internal portal, but we paused it and are rebuilding a new SaaS product.”

Separation remains important

Investors will still want:

Clean IP ownership
A dedicated software entity
Clean SaaS financials
Neutral positioning
Independent customer contracts
No informal access by Hire’in staff to external customer data
Clear shared-service agreements
A software-focused roadmap

Therefore, the architecture should continue; only the ownership and commercial wrapper need to change.

Final verdict

The critique is fundamentally correct.

My revised recommendation is:

Do not rebuild. Do not create two evolving applications. Do not freeze the existing system for a theoretical greenfield future.

Instead:

Form the independent product company.
Transfer or assign the product IP correctly.
Establish a clean product repository from the current codebase.
Preserve the existing domain logic.
Add multi-tenancy in place.
Make Hire’in Organization #1.
Externalize company-specific policies and configurations.
Convert high-risk modules systematically.
Add commercial onboarding, billing, support, and security controls.
Launch with a small number of design partners.

The strategic phrase I would use internally is:

Carve out the company. Convert the platform. Preserve the intelligence.

That gives you the commercial neutrality of a new software business without throwing away the most valuable thing you have built.