Honest assessment: the backend work is useful; the default 9-field dialog is overcomplicated and conflicts with the release direction we already agreed on.

You are trying to launch a productive staffing content creator, not train every user to behave like a senior creative strategist before they can generate a post.

Keep what was built

These parts are valuable and should remain:

New persisted fields:
desired emotion
hook pattern
content structure
engagement goal
Prompt injection through buildPsychologicalContractBlock()
Platform passed correctly into generation
Platform craft duplicate bug fix
Database migration and idempotent ensure block
Corrected Instagram and X content intents
Topic prefill fix
Strategy metadata restored after page reload
Strategy strip showing the creative direction
Article-list hook badge, provided it remains small and unobtrusive

This work makes the intelligence more consistent and prevents the strategy from disappearing after refresh.

Change the default dialog

The current dialog asks the user to make too many strategic decisions:

Platform
Content intent
Emotion
Hook pattern
Content structure
Engagement goal
Topic
Audience
Facts

And six are mandatory.

That is not a quick content creator. It is a detailed campaign brief form.

The biggest problem is not the number nine. It is that several fields require expert judgment:

Which emotion should this create?
Which hook archetype best suits the audience?
Which structure should support that hook?
Which engagement goal fits the platform and content intent?

Your AI is supposed to help make those decisions.

Recommended default form

Show only:

Required
Platform
Content intent
Topic or instruction
Optional
Who is this for?
Facts or context to include

That is five visible fields, with only three required.

The AI should resolve these automatically:

Desired emotion
Hook pattern
Content structure
Engagement goal
Add optional advanced controls

Put the four creative fields inside a collapsed section:

Creative direction — optional

Inside:

Desired emotion
Hook pattern
Content structure
Engagement goal

Each should default to:

Let AI decide

Experienced content creators can override them. New and occasional users do not have to understand them.

This preserves all the backend work without forcing it into every user’s workflow.

Correct workflow
Platform + intent + topic
→ optional audience and facts
→ AI selects emotion, hook, structure and engagement goal
→ draft generated
→ strategy strip shows what was selected
→ user reviews and edits

For an advanced user:

Platform + intent + topic
→ open Creative direction
→ override emotion, hook, structure or engagement goal
→ generate
Strategy strip

The strategy strip is useful and should remain.

Show:

LinkedIn · Thought Leadership · Employer Client · Curiosity · Mechanism Reveal · Problem–Insight–Action

Include a small:

Edit direction

That opens the advanced fields and allows regeneration.

Do not require the user to make all those selections before the first draft.

Generate-button rules

Do not disable Generate until six strategic fields are populated.

Generate should require only:

Topic
Platform
Content intent

Audience may default to AI resolution.

Facts remain optional.

Creative-direction fields should always have an internal value:

Explicit user selection, or
AUTO
One important architecture rule

The prompt should distinguish between:

User-selected creative direction
AI-resolved creative direction

Persist the source of each value where practical:

hookPatternSource: USER | AI
emotionSource: USER | AI
structureSource: USER | AI
engagementGoalSource: USER | AI

This is useful later when evaluating whether users prefer their own selections or the agent’s recommendations.

It is not necessary to expose these source fields in the UI.

Potential prompt conflict to check

The psychological contract must not override:

Safety and factual restrictions
Audience and content intent
Brand Voice Hub
Platform craft rules

Recommended precedence:

Safety and facts
→ audience and intent
→ Brand Voice Hub
→ platform rules
→ creative direction
→ exemplar guidance

Emotion and engagement instructions must not make the draft exaggerated, manipulative, or inconsistent with Hire’in’s professional voice.

For example, selecting “urgency” must not cause invented urgency around a job or market condition.

What I would release tomorrow

Release:

All backend and persistence improvements
Simple five-field default dialog
Three required inputs only
AI-resolved creative direction
Optional Advanced Creative Direction section
Persistent strategy strip
Manual review and approval

Do not release the nine-field mandatory form as the default experience.

Rename the task

The current title suggests the large dialog is the success criterion:

Studio AI psychological brief — full dialog redesign

A better title is:

Task #1060: Studio AI Creative Direction Intelligence — Persistence, Prompt Integration and Optional Controls

That better reflects the product you actually need.

Exact instruction for Replit

Preserve the backend, schema, migration, prompt-injection, persistence, platform-craft fix, strategy-strip restoration and article-list metadata completed in Task #1060.

Simplify the default generation dialog before release.

The default dialog should visibly contain:

Platform — required
Content intent — required
Topic or instruction — required
Audience — optional, with Let AI decide
Facts or context — optional

Move Desired Emotion, Hook Pattern, Content Structure and Engagement Goal into a collapsed “Creative direction — optional” section. Each field must support “Let AI decide.”

Generate must not require users to select emotion, hook pattern, structure or engagement goal. When left on automatic, resolve those values in the backend, inject them into generation, persist them on the article and display them in the post-generation strategy strip.

Preserve the ability for advanced users to override any creative-direction field and regenerate.

Ensure creative direction cannot override factual safety, audience, content intent, Brand Voice Hub or platform-craft requirements.

Do not add additional brief steps, confirmation screens or mandatory hook selection.

Final verdict

Do not discard Task #1060. Optimize its UX.

The intelligence and persistence are good. The forced nine-field interaction is the wrong default.

Your strongest release is:

Simple input for the team, sophisticated strategy behind the scenes, visible creative direction after generation, and optional expert control when needed.